[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: Okay, so
now you've seen frames per second meter.
It's all right, but it's not conclusive.
How do we actually use the browser
tools to sniff out some issues that we
might be having?
Well, there's one thing
that I really like.
Chrome's DevTools have this
thing called Paint Flashing.
You know what, I'll just show it to you.
So we talked a bit how there's layout,
there's painting,
and there's compositing, right?
Paint flashing,
what it does is it shows us where
things are being painted,
not composited, not laid out.
Look, the whole page is green.
The whole page is being painted.
That's not good.
That's gotta cost money.
So let's see what happens
on my site when we do that.
We're gonna enable the paint flashing.
Notice on my site,
only the hands are being flashed because
they're using background position.
But notice what happens
when I use the sidebar.
The sidebar flashes green when it moves,
and
then flashes green again
when it stops moving,
showing that it's being painted only at
the beginning and end of its animation.
That helps clarify how Chrome
is handling those animations.
So, it goes paint and then repaint.
But notice, also, that more, this thing
here, being sprite animation that I use
background positioning on it,
it stays green throughout its animation.
What happens when we go
to one of my other pages?
Oop, see,
it turned green once the page stopped.
The page is animated using a transform.
Technically, we combine this using the
slowdown animations to really get a view.
That's wrong one, back,
go back, abort, abort.
>> Speaker 1: So
we could use this to go back home.
And notice how, when we slow things down,
we can really see when those
paints come into play.
>> Speaker 1: And
then there's the timeline tool.
And the timeline tool's
kinda heavy hitter here.
>> Speaker 1: If you notice that something
is being really janky in certain places,
it's a good idea to use
this tool if you can.
I'm gonna go to Alice in Videoland and
use it.
And I'm gonna turn off the paint flashing
because if you are painting things,
that can also change your performance.
I have seen two very different recordings.
So what you're gonna do is you're
gonna go to your Timeline tab.
If it's not there,
use the little arrows, go there.
Or actually hang on,
there's one thing I have to do.
I'm afraid I've left it at 25%.
I want to be at 100%.
We'll come back to that in a moment.
So we're gonna go down to
>> Speaker 1: Profiles
>> Speaker 2: Not in the dropdown.
>> Speaker 1: Timeline.
Did it move that?
Stop trying to be,
>> Speaker 2: When you click on it,
it moves it up.
>> Speaker 1: Stop trying to be helpful,
Chrome.
You're not helping anybody.
So let's do it like this.
And, I'm gonna hit record.
And it's got me this little
buffer usage down here,
which lets me know how long I have for
recording.
>> Speaker 1: Or how long I'm recording.
I'm gonna scroll.
I'm gonna scroll this pretty fast cuz I
want us get to one area where it can be
problematic.
And I click the down button.
We're going down.
And there she's kicking.
We're gonna keep scrolling,
scroll all the way to the down.
And that should have fired something,
but it's not.
Might possibly be because
we're recording it.
Unfortunately, when we use tools like
this which are really, really invasive,
sometimes things don't behave
the way we expect them to.
Or it could be because my code is wrong.
Who knows?
Now, you can't hear it, but my fans
are going, my computer is very hot.
And there we go.
Now we got something we can work with.
So, check it out.
We even get, man, but it,
we're gonna have to I
think break this out into its
own window cuz it's that big.
My God, we've got to look
at the whole thing as huge.
This will check it out.
We can actually see a little screenshot
of what's happening at any given time.
I went to the Chrome Dev Summit.
And I asked for this feature.
I'm glad I did.
It's a lot easier to see where these
bottlenecks are if you can visually see
what's happening at that time.
Up here, you can see that we've got,
at the very top of the bar,
we can see that we've got these
different mountain features in green.
Those are measuring
the FPS at any given time.
And you can see, of course,
where the FPS dropped.
Here's a big dip.
Let's see what's happening here.
Well, it looks like that was just when
the teacup sat there for a little bit.
And I don't know why it was like that.
But perhaps it was because,
if we go down here, we can
have a look at all the mounds of listeners
that I am calling at the same time.
Look, we can even, woh, this is Skrollr.
Hi, Skrollr, good to see you.
Yep.
>> Speaker 1: Does it not go past here?
Does it not?
Wow, you know what?
Wow, this happened.
So everybody, this should have
shown the teacup dropping here.
But Chrome actually trying to fell off
the side of the wall on this one and
stop taking screenshots,
this happens sometimes.
Chrome Canary might be
a little bit more reliable.
I'd recommend you try
this tool on that one.
But Chrome Canary also
tends to the change a lot.
So I like to use it in regular
old Chrome when I'm demoing it.
But anyway after around here where
you start seeing these changes,
we can't see it.
But this is where events are happening,
like where we're clicking on things.
And you can find the actual
triggers if you make your selection
small enough,
which I can't seem to get smaller.
There we go, and we can actually see
what's triggering some of these things.
>> Speaker 1: There we go.
So we've got jQuery
Waypoints fires right here.
We can see that there's a little dip.
Did this cause the issue?
Can't be 100% sure.
Might have also been caused
by the scroll event.
Got a lot happening at the same time.
But if you see these big dips,
you could come in here and
see what's firing right before them.
And that might be a tell that that event,
whether it's a big repaint cuz repaints
and such are listed in here too,
whether or not that's the sorta
thing that's causing it.
And we can get rid of the screenshots and
get rid of the JavaScript profile,
or you can keep it.
You can get rid of the memory.
I actually like the memory area.
It's so big.
And we have a lot of different things,
like timer, function call, to doScroll.
You can get really deep.
And that is how we can actually
find not just the JavaScript but
also the CSS things that
might be slowing us down.
Timeline tool is pretty complex.
I do recommend you give it a look.
But the best performance tip I
can possibly, possibly give you
is to not animate things
that aren't visible.
You might think that your browser is
smart enough to not try to animate
things when they're not onscreen.
But the truth is, if you have something
spinning off the side of the screen,
maybe it's a couple screens down or
something, you've got a spin or
they're gonna around in circles, or
maybe you have hundred of them there,
the browser's actually paying attention to
where those spinners should be when you
finally get those spinners into view.
So, if they're not in view,
they shouldn't be animated.
You can use libraries like Waypoints.js
to keep an eye on what's in view.
And you can use this to help trigger
animations since they're only playing when
they're in view.
And we can do that using states
which we were playing with earlier.
States in view, I use the in view class
quite a bit for triggering animations.
Maybe one day, we'll have an even more
above the board way to go about that.